I'm Phil Gail welcome to the program the
UN Security Council has failed to pass a
resolution calling for a ceasefire in
Gaza Russia and China vetoed the
resolution which had been put forward by
the United States the measure called for
an immediate and sustained ceasefire
tied to the release of hostages held by
Hamas it's the fourth time the council
has failed to pass a vote calling for a
ceasefire here is the US ambassador to
the
UN let's be honest for all the fiery
retoric we all know that Russia and
China are not doing anything
diplomatically to advance a lasting
peace or to meaningfully contribute to
the humanitarian response
effort colleagues there is obviously
another resolution that some of you
would like to be considered but in its
current form that text fails to support
sensitive diplomacy in the region worse
it is it could actually give Hamas an
excuse to walk away from the deal on the
table let's go to our Washington
correspondent Stefan Simon welcome
Stefan so Russia and China vetoing this
un us sponsored ceasefire resolution um
was this
expected no actually it wasn't expected
you know uh the staff uh of the US
ambassador to the UN worked and
diplomats in the state department and
the White House here worked for weeks on
the on a draft on the text for this so I
think before they brought this to the UN
Security Council they were actually at
least largely hopeful that it would pass
perhaps because as you mentioned four
times now including this one that the
security Council failed um uh going
forward with a any resolution three
times of uh those four times the US
vetoed now it's China and Russia and of
course the feeling here in the US is
that Russia and the and China did this
not as we just heard from the Ambassador
US ambassador to the UN did this for
actually diplomatic reasons but to put
the US in a box to basically let's say
Stick it to the Man um they want a
unconditional ceasefire the US was and
that is by the way a major shift in
their policy already uh I have to really
emphasize this this was a major step
forward the US now calling for a
immediate and sustained ceasefire that
was officially not enough for the
Russians and the Chinese all right well
given that massive change of us position
it it it does sound hypocritical for the
US now to criticize uh the the likes of
Russia and China for vetoing when as you
say uh they have vetoed three times
themselves why is it different why does
the you why does the US regard this as
being different uh from those other
three times when they uh were the
veto well from a US pers perspective
this is a major leap of the Biden White
House and the US Administration to call
out Israel and say like listen you need
to stop your what you're doing basically
in not allowing enough humanitarian Aid
into Gaza we need a ceasefire we need it
now immediately and it needs to be able
to be sustained that means indefinite it
needs to be indefinite as long as we
need the Us and other partners need to
put more aid push massive Aid needs and
S and satisfy those massive eight needs
in Gaza the CIA director William Burns
is as we speak now in Qatar actually um
you know negotiating working on a deal
with Hamas for a hostage release that is
still very imperative for the United
States should be for Israel too you know
Mr blinkin is in Israel right now it's
not it doesn't seem to turn out being a
good day for us diplomacy here but again
the US is going compare to what they did
before or what they were able to and
willing to say before the extra mile now
saying sustained and immediate ceasefire
and lots of lots of Aid immediately into
Gaza it's not going to happen via the un
uh Security Council and Via a resolution
you may want to say does that actually
matter if the UN and the UN Security
Council um adopts a resolution which
says that or is it more more important
for the US and others just to push
forward with Aid into Gaza to help those
people there in a very very very
difficult situation well that's not for
me to decide okay so uh briefly then
Stefan um where does the how does the US
proceed from
here I think the US is for the time
being done with pushing any resolution
it will in the un uh but uh diplomatic
effort will continue and I think the
Biden Administration has to also for
political reasons here within the United
States remember we have a presidential
campaign presidential elections this
year and the Biden Administration needs
some success on this topic Gaza Israel
war uh because of American uh Arab or
Arab American voters uh so they will
push forward that's why Mr blinkin is in
the Middle East that's why the CIA
director is in in Cutter and that's why
the US meditation as a whole will push
forward to get their agenda through and
get a ceasefire into Gaza okay Stefan
zimmons in Washington thank you so
much all right we want to go now to Tel
Aviv I'm joined by Myra zanine of the
international crisis group she's a
senior analyst focused on Israeli
Palestinian issues and Regional
conflicts it's good to have you with us
Russia and China vetoing this us
sponsored resolution what do you make of
that did did you expect this
vote well I think uh it's it's pretty
clear that the US is trying to at least
appear to be doing something on the
front uh of the Israel Gaza War but uh
in effect the US has not called for a
ceasefire permanent ceasefire which I
think everybody understands at this
point is necessary because of the
humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza uh
Russia and China of course have their
own interests uh in in vetoing or
abstaining or going against the US
resolution politically but either way
the resolution itself did not call for a
ceasefire without condition which is I
believe what many of the members were
looking for and and the fact that this
us back resolution failed to pass in the
UN Security Council can Israel now claim
this as a a sort of
Victory well Israel claims plenty of
Victories when it can the icj South
Africa hearing the fact that it didn't
uh actually re call for a ceasefire or
uh uh decide that Israel was actually
committing genci side only the potential
was claimed as a victory by Israel um
you know so Israel could certainly claim
this as a victory Israel still has full
us backing for this War uh and it
continues with its offensive and
continues to make threats as about Rafa
as
well